John Mertic: Hey how's it going
pfandel: Good, how are you. Wow.
JP Linardon: Hi, Bob.
John Mertic: Hey Mike, how you doing,
Mike MacIsaac: Pretty good. How are you, I'm well, thanks.
John Mertic: Give it a few more minutes for people to pop in my Dino is filtering you today.
Mike MacIsaac: I do not think so he's, he hasn't been online today. Okay.
John Mertic: It two minutes after the hour here just see if we get anyone else.
John Mertic: How you doing,
Ingo Adlung: Doing fine only one more day to go and so I must be doing good.
John Mertic: There you go. There you go.
John Mertic: Let's few minutes after the hour. I don't know if we'll get others to join. Here we leave to voting members today, but I think today's mostly just updates. Anyways, so we can move forward. I have the agenda is up on
Here.
Everyone can follow it home.
There's the link I just dropped it in the chat.
John Mertic: I'm pretty straightforward meeting today just kind of go through where we're at with all the projects.
John Mertic: We've had an agenda item on here, which we've not really proceeded on and I guess I'd be kind of getting everyone's taking whether we should still keep it on here.
John Mertic: Along renewal of incubation process projects and the criteria for considering marital status, and then I think we still had this one in here for a while and
John Mertic: We've not got any sort of more traction on it. So I'm wondering if maybe after the first year we drop it and we just wait to see if someone adds it back. And that's the project proposal for communities on Linux one
John Mertic: So that's pretty much what we had for today. Anything else anyone who would like to add to the call.
Hey, come on. JOHN
JP Linardon: We're going to talk about internships. Right.
John Mertic: Yes, that is in there. Yes, we have. That's a
John Mertic: Mentorship. Yep.
JP Linardon: Okay.
John Mertic: We can't forget about that one.
John Mertic: Yeah, we'll do that in the project updates.
John Mertic: Sound good
John Mertic: Yes, sir.
JP Linardon: Cool, alright.
John Mertic: So let's go into incubating projects. I think I see some folks from the Venus Project. Do we have any updates from that project to share
pfandel: Yeah. Hi, this is Peter
pfandel: I do because this is tied in with a larger
pfandel: Business model proposal here rocket
pfandel: I'm going to give you the update on that and I did speak to the Eunice early in the week and he is in meetings with Barry Baker.
pfandel: And pair of IBM either today or tomorrow.
pfandel: To discuss this.
pfandel: I have I'm in late stages of preparing the concept proposal to present to rockets executive team. And those are the kind of the prerequisites for us moving forward and
pfandel: The next steps for amateurs, which is pushing all of our sources up in the forget have
John Mertic: Any other
John Mertic: I mean, I don't know if you have
pfandel: Anything.
John Mertic: To add on.
John Mertic: Top of that Joe
Joe Bostian: Yeah, so, um, there's some some work that we've got on the IBM side to to push out some examples and some sample kinds of things. That's kind of distinct from the work that Peter side of the House is doing.
Joe Bostian: But we want to get a lot of, you know, sort of how to and informational stuff out there.
Joe Bostian: Over the next few weeks before the end of the year. So there'll be some activity on that as well.
Joe Bostian: That's about it for me.
Joe Devlin: For me,
Joe Devlin: The showed up and
Joe Devlin: It will help when rocket uploads the source and will have
pfandel: Or hoping that everyone agrees to that Peter. I'm just, well you're Joe you're talking specifically about the GCC port. Is that correct,
pfandel: Amount.
Joe Devlin: Yeah, I mean, well, and anything else that you're doing. But, um,
Joe Devlin: But that I'm working on.
Joe Devlin: Getting better debugger support and
Joe Devlin: For these language implementations. Right.
pfandel: Because it could I do have, I do have an unconditional green light to have john Carlo.
pfandel: Continue to upload. His latest work to to get up for GCC. Yeah.
Joe Devlin: And I'm wondering now that I'm I saw it outspent from IBM maybe one of the IBM errs know that that I think that Peter Homer is pushing among I mean sure with executive approval and other people IBM has got a better and better VS Code.
Joe Devlin: Enter.
Editor integration.
Joe Devlin: Does anyone following that side of
Joe Devlin: IBM is work. I mean, that's sort of a
Joe Devlin: Nice open mainframe ish thing. Yeah, most make
Joe Devlin: Make as much as possible.
pfandel: Of the mainframe, you know,
Joe Devlin: Language editing.
Joe Devlin: Work there and then debugger is and other things too. And I'm just wondering, is anyone
Joe Devlin: Who'd be nice to have Peter. Talk to us a little bit and maybe synchronize what we're doing with languages here a little bit.
More
Joe Devlin: Certainly I if I were making the first place my debugger would show up would be, you know, inside what Peter, you know, Peter, how it's doing
Joe Devlin: A minute.
John Mertic: No, no, no, no. Yeah, I can hear. Yeah.
pfandel: Um,
John Mertic: I guess, would it be, would it be useful to
John Mertic: To have them have him as a part of a TLC meeting to per attack meeting here to present
John Mertic: You know some of that or is that just very specific to me this.
Joe Devlin: Looks like it's specific to ambit us at least at first. I think the ambitious people should be having a catch up meeting with a Peter. How are. And then, you know, seeing
Joe Devlin: Where the parts ago they are because it's
Joe Devlin: Just going to be very slick, you know, there's just sort of IBM and hopefully oh MP will be leveraging all of Microsoft and the open source world investment in this and you know come out with something that really looks nice to younger folks.
John Mertic: Make sense. Okay.
John Mertic: Well, maybe, maybe the if it sounds like maybe that projects takes the lead up and then if there's if it, if it makes sense then to have something, you know, a presentation or something at the tack. I think I think everyone be pretty open to that.
Joe Bostian: Yeah yeah let's let's put them on the agenda for the next the next meeting. If we can get his
Joe Devlin: Attention. I'll try to reach out to him.
Joe Devlin: Okay. All right. Well, cool.
pfandel: Awesome. One last request on the evidence is I was just looking at the open mainframe project interactive landscape page to learn about some of these others.
pfandel: And I looked at the ambitious one in the description is simply a guide for main framers to open source. It was wondering maybe we should be a little more specific about that.
John Mertic: I think that probably makes a lot of sense.
Joe Bostian: Yeah yeah
pfandel: I mean, if, if, if
John Mertic: You all of the group wants to
John Mertic: Pull something together as a group that's fine. And then you can
pfandel: All right, Joe. I'll talk to you about Joe and Joe
John Mertic: Yeah yeah
Joe Bostian: Okay okay yeah well together.
John Mertic: Yeah. And you can do that actually is a pull request just against the entry or I think whatever or or actually even the easier thing is, is the main that main repo. The end.
Joe Devlin: Ministry. Oh.
John Mertic: If you just change the description, it'll update it here.
pfandel: Okay.
John Mertic: That's a good catch. Nice. Good catch.
pfandel: All right.
John Mertic: I'm moving forward. And I'm just
John Mertic: Kind of skipping to where I see people who are from
John Mertic: Earlier calls on here.
John Mertic: I know fail long I guess Ingo maybe you are think you were on the call earlier this morning around Fei long, there's been a little bit of progress of
pfandel: Trying to work on the built environment.
John Mertic: I think they're working on having a
John Mertic: Discussion with
John Mertic: The Zoe CIC D team.
John Mertic: To see if maybe the least the LF portions that were built.
John Mertic: Out that can be shared, potentially, just to avoid having to build the same thing twice and just add a few extra you know accounts in there.
John Mertic: But I think, other than that it will be there's any other major updates that I'm aware of. I don't know.
Ingo Adlung: If anything's
John Mertic: replacing their, their
Ingo Adlung: Nose.
Ingo Adlung: Not as I would know. So from a development perspective, those guys have
Ingo Adlung: Been completely headstone.
Joe Devlin: During this this this
Ingo Adlung: cloud infrastructure center that I that I brave provided a brief update about that fail on his part off.
Ingo Adlung: And Adobe know now.
Ingo Adlung: I guess there will be it will be going back to provide functional enhancements to fail long but
Ingo Adlung: Generally speaking, I guess it would be good to understand where people see gaps.
Ingo Adlung: That they would like to to see addressed. I know I'm a customer on being icy in the lights.
Ingo Adlung: They had just audit himself on the, on the, on the, on the Maris mailing list that's that they're using a long code from the mainframe project and have automated to their environment upon it.
John Mertic: Oh. Nice. Nice. Nice. We should see if they were maybe getting involved in some of the Community calls and things just to help provide feedback and see if there's anything want to contribute. Yeah.
Ingo Adlung: It was only it was only today that said one of the guys bus was actually posting on the other mariska mailing lists.
John Mertic: That was nice to see definitely, definitely.
John Mertic: All right, I'm policy carefully. I don't think there's any updates there.
John Mertic: Jerry sends his regrets. I think he's a bit heads down in his day job at the moment I think during the kickoff more KSC meetings. After the first of the year.
John Mertic: bizarro I know here in I see you on in the background there. We had the first TLC meeting. I don't know if there's any updates you want to share
hiren: Oh, yeah. So we had our first TSA meeting. I'm still looking for additional
hiren: members to join this community. So we need to keep reaching out to people and and make them aware of it. And so that they can join and then contribute so yep so that's the following activities for for upcoming year on to recruit people to PSC and also community.
hiren: Anytime we have a good set of workflows that additional workflows that IBM GTS team contributed so that would be on top of samples and provisioning workflow. So people who are looking for some good examples we are no additional examples that are shared by IBM GTS team.
That's great to hear.
John Mertic: Any other questions. Any questions on zero
John Mertic: All right, shifting over into the active stage projects.
John Mertic: I think just for people who are on the phone here mentorship. I think Bob, you have some updates.
Bob Dahlberg: Yes, we've gotten a lot more
Bob Dahlberg: Projects just even within the last day or two. We're now up to 10 projects we were only at six, I think.
Bob Dahlberg: Tuesday. So we're now up to
Bob Dahlberg: 10 so that's good. We've got them from Well Joe Devlin was the first one to submit. We've got some from Viacom IBM
Bob Dahlberg: And Broadcom and rocket sent into as well. So all we were in, we're in good shape there we've got to now post those on the GitHub and archive the old ones to past so we can get ready to
Bob Dahlberg: Start recruiting mentees
Bob Dahlberg: We mostly difficult change from last year is that
Bob Dahlberg: In the years past, we've had time
Bob Dahlberg: Intervals where we released Stephens will keep the time intervals as
Bob Dahlberg: You know, kind of guidelines, but we're looking for more deliverable or event based distributions of skipping this next year. So for instance, during the break end period.
Bob Dahlberg: We get the paperwork in get that done mid term we expect the
hiren: And then the final distribution will be the
Bob Dahlberg: Prototype that they've they've developed. So we've gotten the mentor guide done we'll have the mentee guide done in the next few weeks.
Bob Dahlberg: So we're about right as soon as we get the GitHub and she will be able to start recruiting
hiren: Yeah. So one question on on this part is
hiren: If we could mentor some in for for project like Zorro where they they need to build some workflows, they would need access to the POS system.
hiren: Zero SMS. So, so any thoughts how Miss desperation. I didn't propose the Zoho project, which I was not sure if these mentee would be able to get access to the system to
Bob Dahlberg: That actually, that's a good question right now VCU that the University. I'm involved with is we're in some negotiation with our medical schools to get a Z machine that we will offer a a LPR there to the Linux open mainframe project where people can do this stuff.
Bob Dahlberg: Right now we're hoping to even get this thing done and ordered by the end of the year.
Ingo Adlung: There's a
Bob Dahlberg: Lot of high powered and
Bob Dahlberg: deans and presidents, trying to figure this out. Now we've supplied them all the technical information. So I should know in the next couple of weeks, whether or not we'll have that facility, ready to go by the summer so
Bob Dahlberg: Yeah, I, I really can't we we've been working on this for 18 months and haven't gotten the funding, but I think
Bob Dahlberg: The medical school may provide us with
hiren: Okay, yeah. Just keep me in the loop. So once we dance.
hiren: Yeah, so give me the nucleus of this we have such environment. But then, obviously, we can recruit more
hiren: Okay, please.
Bob Dahlberg: Find out, we're going to get this thing by a summer, you know, if I find out in the next few weeks.
Bob Dahlberg: Okay, know that you know it's on its way. And that will have it ready and that way you can still proposal, a project.
hiren: Okay, thank you.
Bob Dahlberg: Yeah, because we're anxious to get this going. I know there's no way people are anxious and I think we're all anxious to have resources to do development.
Bob Dahlberg: For the Linux Foundation's open mainframe project.
Bob Dahlberg: So I'll keep I'll keep john posted to I
Bob Dahlberg: He's not he's we've invited him to our committee, but he's been so bogged down with other things I've just been keeping them updated from time to time.
John Mertic: Yeah. Apologies. Apologies for all of that, but to run things are progressing.
Bob Dahlberg: Well, you know, you never know.
Bob Dahlberg: I think we're close. But I'm never amazed by the power of people that you know the screwed things up at the last
Bob Dahlberg: That's probably why land is not on the call today. Yeah, working up quotes
John Mertic: Yeah, it's, it's that time of year. Unfortunately, right.
John Mertic: Cool. Um, so yeah. So it sounds like Bob probably we should be able to, you know, start recruiting here right next week. It sounds like it sounds like a pretty close. Did you get your GitHub issues worked out by the way.
Bob Dahlberg: I didn't get a chance. I got involved with the VCU mainframe, so I
Bob Dahlberg: Ok diverted there and but I'm hoping to get to it.
Bob Dahlberg: Probably tomorrow is the
Bob Dahlberg: Next, when do I have, oh, getting back to it.
John Mertic: Sounds good. Okay.
John Mertic: Excellent. Thank you very much. I'm Zoe.
John Mertic: anybody you want to speak on behalf of Zoe.
JP Linardon: JP, so
JP Linardon: We are gearing up for the one dot eight release the main focus is the installation component ization. So where we were targeting a release date. Next week we're pushing that to the end of the year, maybe early next year.
JP Linardon: The virtual desktop is what we're working on right now so fairly exciting, but we have some potentially breaking changes. So we want to proceed with caution.
JP Linardon: Other than that, everything is moving very smoothly and I think we don't have any concern with move a community involved mental processes at this time.
JP Linardon: Good. Good, glad to hear
John Mertic: Excellent. Any questions from anybody.
John Mertic: Alright. So as I mentioned, we have two topics that have been kind of floating at the bottom of the agenda for a little while here.
John Mertic: One was racing. Listen, I think, was raised by Matt hawks drum and I know he sort of stepped aside from his duties here over the past month or so. And this is a discussion on renewal for an incubation proc projects and criteria for considering a marital status.
John Mertic: So I think a little bit of a thought pattern here was, um, I guess twofold. One is
John Mertic: Making sure that incubation projects are you know the attack is confident that these projects are progressing and on directive status towards or directed path towards active status.
John Mertic: And identifying projects that aren't and then determine whether it just doesn't look like it's going to make it.
John Mertic: Or if there needs to be some assistance from the tack to help out. That was one half of the discussion. And then I think the other piece was around America status.
John Mertic: For ACTIVE PROJECTS. I think particular here at he was one that was mentioned here because it's really not had very much activity over the past several months.
John Mertic: And whether the the tack.
John Mertic: Wants to, you know, get a little bit more actively engaged, figure out you know where this this project is standing there to help get some more engagement going
John Mertic: Or if it or if it's on a path towards America status. So that was the context. I remember from the emails. Um, I don't know if anyone else has any other thoughts or anything else they would want to share on this or
How the how the attacker to want to proceed.
John Mertic: I don't know if I'm, I'm going to ask the same question to Joe
John Mertic: Devlin did, and hopefully I'm not on
Mute
John Mertic: Hopefully everyone is deep in thought.
pfandel: I heard a pin drop
Joe Devlin: I don't know. I don't have my my my
Joe Devlin: TL a dictionary with
Joe Devlin: Me a D.
John Mertic: Anomaly detection engine.
Joe Devlin: Z. The former is he aware or
John Mertic: Yeah, yeah. I think some of the
John Mertic: Guts of Z aware, maybe
John Mertic: Former I don't. Yeah, that it came from that product.
Joe Devlin: I would like to hear from real people, solving real problems that Z aware actually did something that merited its bulk and complexity, I guess I've been a doubter from the first time it was presented to me, six years ago or so. So I, I don't know, it just
Joe Devlin: I'd be surprised if it's something that people would want to throw effort in at this point in time, especially
Joe Devlin: It's based on machine learning technologies that don't represent the current boom and what is going on machine learning and AI. So I'll throw the first rock. Now, everyone should feel free
Joe Bostian: So just as a point of information does does calling something putting something in America status essentially mean it's an active or is there a different kind of status to care.
John Mertic: Yeah, that's that's effectively inactive. So basically, um, basically, at that point, it's like the, you know, if you're familiar with Apache, the same term is like the attic.
John Mertic: It just means it's not being developed anymore.
John Mertic: The open mainframe project is a home for it, you know, just for the the assets.
John Mertic: And, you know, there's really nothing. There's no development that happens on a going forward. Unless there's like some sort of security issue that comes up and then
John Mertic: You know that's something that can be considered from the tack to do. But yeah, effectively, it's no longer active and treated as such. I don't know. Does that, does that help answer your question.
Joe Bostian: Yeah yeah
John Mertic: I can put a link. There's a link on a put it in the project stages. I'll just throw in the chat.
Well,
Joe Bostian: I'll do a little homework I can look it up. Okay.
John Mertic: I do know there there was at least a few emails exchanged between, you know, James caffery who who runs it and making a student there was looking to do some work on it.
John Mertic: But like I said, I've we've not seen too much activity and i think i would i would love to see sort of what
John Mertic: You know is there folks within this project community that that feel like it. You know, there, there can be something done with this project.
John Mertic: Is it or is it sort of a project that has just naturally wound down and I think Joe your comments are valid if if the machine learning technologies that are the core of it are out of date. Does it, does it make sense to
John Mertic: Move away from that because of it, or you know, try to reinvigorate some of that in there. I don't know and i and i also don't know where the Z aware product sits currently either
Ingo Adlung: Doesn't go I don't know either. So I'm from that perspective. I can't really provide any any additional insight. So I guess the question is
Ingo Adlung: Z aware if if if capitalizing it from a, from a 10,000 feet perspective was about it. Analytics it operational analytics, so I don't know whether they are whether there are any any any competing projects in the industry.
Ingo Adlung: That it might be desirable to look
Ingo Adlung: Perhaps contributing some of its
Ingo Adlung: Capabilities or or
Joe Devlin: I only know one linkage to something out there that got used was that I believe there's an optional component to IBM and Megan on for z.
Joe Devlin: Which does consume some amount of data from. Is he aware, have some presentation workspaces based on some of that information. I don't know anything else that sort of
Joe Devlin: Has that has that link may be other things took advantage of it.
Yeah, so
Ingo Adlung: Don't get me wrong, I was not wondering about, um, any, any commercial product that consumes the aware or or or AC e data. More specifically, but I was wondering whether whether there's
Ingo Adlung: Whether whether the interactivity is is just a a reaction to the fact that that there are more sophisticated things in the public in the meanwhile, and therefore it's it's it's
Ingo Adlung: It's just an outdated technology or better. There's still an asset that that that people might just not be aware of because
Ingo Adlung: Repeat Itself is not that that that that the popular and and I don't know whether whether it at even ever worked on x86 or whether whether whether the reference implementation was just for z and therefore
Ingo Adlung: Nobody cares about it. I don't know. I'm just making up those questions.
Joe Devlin: I believe offers original implementation was non z, I think it was done on Linux or Windows x86 with a melody engine and the original papers from IBM if every search
John Mertic: Wait, it
John Mertic: Would it make sense to just make requests know James capris always invited to these calls but
John Mertic: You know, maybe have a more formal discussion about this at the next to next hack meeting.
Ingo Adlung: Would be great if he could if he could give us some some some insight and advice.
Okay.
Joe Devlin: Yep. Proof of interest in something and proof of proof of lack of interest in something or not very symmetrical.
John Mertic: Okay I yeah
John Mertic: I think it's I think it's, I think that's definitely fair. I'm in terms of so so I'll we can do that email for him and make sure you can attend the next meeting. I'm in terms of projects in incubation. I don't
John Mertic: You know, if I look again back at our charter here there is a clause in here that says, you know, once a year.
John Mertic: Incubation projects come to a boat with a TASC and then you need a supermajority to keep renewing it or if it hasn't moved to active stage I'm, I'm, I'm happy to go through and sort of catalog when projects were brought in and then just sort of determine
John Mertic: Which ones, the TASC the attack would need to review.
John Mertic: I think the only ones that this probably applies to is fail long, but I wouldn't send that would be a very complicated one to have renewed and then the other one that I know that is stuck out there for quite some time or the atom plugins, which were contributed by john
John Mertic: Who I think is based out of Poughkeepsie, and there's been very limited development. I think on those as well. So I think that might be also another one that it might be
John Mertic: Good for the the TAC to review everything else out of that. I think I guess church decompresses the other one that came in late last year. So that's probably another one that's up for renewal.
John Mertic: Um, would it would it make sense to make sure that the maintainer is for all of those could be, you know, a part of the next tech meeting and then those can be reviewed.
John Mertic: For renewal.
John Mertic: Thanks, Mike. I'm glad. And that makes me makes me feel like I'm not talking on mute here.
John Mertic: I think, I think we have a lot of folks that are already in the holiday mind here or that are trying to close deals in the background wanted to
John Mertic: Um, okay. Well, that's cool. So I will do
pfandel: That for the next meeting.
John Mertic: Um, and then the last one we had is this project proposal that's been sitting out here for a while. I don't think we've had, too.
John Mertic: much traction
John Mertic: On it, um, would it make sense to just to kind of take this off of the agenda and just let the people that
John Mertic: Proposed it says the Cuban 80s and Linux one of just, you know, hey, let us know when you're ready to bring this back to the attack is that. Does that make sense to everyone.
Joe Devlin: Who was the original suggestion.
John Mertic: I think this came from. This was a student intern projects. Not this year, but the year before, and I think Mike resonator was working with them.
John Mertic: And I think, yeah, I think a couple of the interns that came together and decided to combine their work into one project, each of them had kind of did work on one did on canonical wanted on Red Hat when they did it.
pfandel: On Susa
John Mertic: And the idea was to see if we could combine some of this into a project to maintain but
John Mertic: I don't. It just doesn't seem like we've had too much traction
pfandel: Okay.
pfandel: All right, well, just for sounds reasonable to me. Excellent. Thank you. All right.
John Mertic: That's all I have on the agenda for today.
John Mertic: Anything anyone else would like to discuss
John Mertic: Alright well everyone gets 26 minutes of their life back. Thank you so much for your time today.
John Mertic: Thank you all for attending these
pfandel: Meetings and
John Mertic: Serving on the tech over the course of the year.
John Mertic: Here and I hope you all have a wonderful holidays and we'll see you after the new year.
pfandel: You too. Bye.
Joe Bostian: Bye.